# Extra exercises
A number of extra exercises for students to make on their own.

Each Python file contains a script that tests the implementation
of the required function(s) on a number of test cases.  If the
functions are defined correctly, the script should report okay for
each test case.  (For `tmpl_plot_curves.py` this is not possible,
so check visually whether the result is correct for two cases, that
of the sine and cosine functions.)

## What is it?
1. `fit_signal.ipynb`: Fit a function (given) to a noisy signal using
    `signal.csv` as data.
1. `tmpl_leap_year.py`: define a function to determine whether a
    given year is a leap year.
1. `tmpl_count_letters.py`: define a function that returns the
    number of upper case characters in a given string.
1. `tmpl_illegals.py`: define a function that returns the number
    of characters in a string that are not A, C, G, T.
1. ``tmpl_make_legal.py`: define a function that given a string,
    creates a new string that only retains the characters A, C, G, T.
1. `tmpl_is_complement.py`: define a function that takes two DNA
    strings as arguments, and returns True if the first is the
    complement of the second, False otherwise.
1. `tmpl_factorial.py`: define the factorial function recursively
    and iteratively.
1, `tmpl_palindrome.py`: define a function to determine whether a
    string is a palindrome.
1. `tmpl_times.py`: define functions to deal with time in the format
    HH:MM:SS and seconds.
1. `tmpl_create_curves.py`: define a function that given a file name
    and a number of points generates data for the sine and cosine
    functions in trhee columns, the first is the time, the second
    the result of the sine function, the third the result of the
    cosine function.  The number of rows is the number of points
    specified.  To test, the file `expected_data.txt` is required.
1. `tmpl_plot_curves.py`: define a function that given a file name
    plots a specified column in that file using matplotlib.  As
    input, use the file generated by `tmpl_create_curves.py`.
1. `tmpl_tmpl_sums.py`: define two function that each take a file
    name as argument, and that compute the row sum and column sum
    of the matrix represented in the file.  The files `matrix1.txt`
    and `matrix2.txt` are rerquired for testing.
1. `tmpl_repetitions.py`: define a function that takes two strings
    as arguments, and returns the number of times the second string
    is contiguously repeated in the first.
1. `tmpl_find_longest.py`: define a function that returns the
    longest substring of a given string that consists of the same
    character.
1. `tmpl_scramble.py`: prbabilistically scramble words in a
    sentence.

## Solutions
Solutions are found in the `Solutions` directory.
